What Do I Say?-
Senior Presentation Guidelines
The purpose of the Senior Presentation is to tell the stor of the Senior Proiect by combining and synthesizing what was learned from the product creation with the information from the paper.

1. The presentation should tell a story.You should explain the detailed process of creating the product,
what you learned while writing your paperand how the two are connected.The story should have an: introduction.a body(paper and product)and a conclusion.
2.Introduction:Begin with an attention grabberthe reason you choose this projectthe amount of
experience you had before you started(prior knowledge),and an explanation of the paper topic and why you believe it makes sense with your product

3.The body: you must discuss both your paner and your product.but the order you do this in is up to
you.
4. Paper:explain why thistopic?thesisfactssupporting thesisyour research processpossibly include
details on connectedness to product.
5.Product: introduction of mentorsteps to completion with details about difficulties/highs and lows in
your process (use your visuals here),include details on connectedness to paper
6.Conclusion: what will you do with your experience or new knowledge?Surprises?Would you do
something differently?Acknowledgements(thank-you and citations)Questions.
7.The presentation must include two visual or auditory aids such as recordingsPowerPoint with
evidence of your productmodelsequipment or tools used to make your product or mementos. Your visual aids must enhance your presentation by offering more evidence you didwhat you said you did. These must actually be referred to during your presentation. It is not enough that they sit next to you during your presentationyou must talk about them.

8. Video or sound clips cannot be longer than 2minutesand do not count toward the minimum speaking
time required
9. The presentation must be 8 to 12 minutes in length not including video or sound clipsfollowed by a
question and answer period.
10.Wise students practice their presentation as often as possible.You may use note cards or a PowerPoint
presentation as prompts.
11This is a formal presentation.You should dress tocompliment the presentation
